---
layout: post
title: 'Setting UP TLS Certificate in AWS EC2 Instance'
date: '2021-11-19 9:40:00'
categories: AWS
---

This blog was inspired by our recent project in cit 480, where we had to set up a website inside an ec2 instance, create subnets, route tables, figure out domain names and web hosting, as well as do our own TLS certificates. What is a TLS certificate (Transport Layer Security Certificate) also known as SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) is the standard technology being run behind the scenes in the websites you visit and it's responsible for keeping your online transactions and logins secure. It does this by creating a secure connection between web servers and your web browser, this happens almost instantly with the website loading and prevents sensitive data being stolen in transit. Well know if a website is secured with TLS when you see https as well as the lock logo in the web address bar. 

You can get TLS Certificates a few different ways, one way is Let’s Encrypt another way is using an amazon service called certificate manager that's the one we will be using. Travel to AWS certificate manager and request a certificate, the first thing you will need to give them is your domain name. The next step will be to validate that you have control over that domain and keep it to the domain validation option. Skip the tags, then just review that the dns is right and request certification. You won't get the certificate until you validate the DNS to do this. We must create a CNAME record for it, we're hosting on route 53 so we can just click the ‘create in route 53' button and amazon will do it for you.  The certificate will appear under certificates and the status will turn green saying issued, however the in use portion of the descriptions will say no, thats because it is not attached to our ec2. In amazon we can't attach certs directly to an ec2, however we can attach them to a load balancer. 

To set up the Load Balancer we need to go to Load Balancer on services, hit the create button. Give the balancer a name then switch the protocol to HTTPS and load balancer port 443. For the availability zones select the ones you want but make sure at least one is the same as the one your ec2 is using. Next Configure the security setting to make sure that ‘Choose a Certificate from ACM’ is turned on, it will ask you for a certificate name and select the one you created. As for security groups, click on one you've already created before.  Next up is configuring routing to set up a new target group and give it a name, for the target type to make sure it's set to instance. For the ‘Protocol’ area leave it as HTTP and port 80, we do this because our load balance will only talk to our ec2 so there's no for https.  Next is register targets in this step make sure the ec2 you want to use is selected to create your laid balancer. Once it's created go to its DNS name and copy it, navigate back to route 53 and add it as an A type record. Now your website should be secured !
